From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number one 22 recorded live
Thursday, July 17th, 2008. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
rad controls. The most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Carl talk about baby smash.
I knew application Scott created
using WPF. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And I'm sitting down today
with none of them. Carl Franklin.
He's back. Hey, what's up,
man? How are you, sir?
I'm doing great. So do
me a favor car. I'll
bring up a browser. I
have a browser right here.
Okay, go ahead and hit
www.baby smash.com. Baby smash, baby
smash, like Hulk smash, but
baby smash. Okay. It's coming
up baby. Smashed by Scott
Hanselman, baby proof, computer fun.
All right, go ahead and
hit download there. Alright. Should
I say run setup? Yeah.
Or he can hit launch
either one. It's an ad.
It's a click once application.
That's a click once. Okay.
So launch we'll do downloading
running. All right. So the
screen went white and a
dialogue box that says baby
smash options came out. Alrighty.
So do I just click?
Okay. What, what are you,
what are your choices here?
So it says welcome to
baby smash. We're adding new
features weekly this week, added
click animations and only graphics.
So I get that this
is for kids and you
basically map every key on
the keyboard and let them
bang on it and make
noises and pretty shapes and
stuff. Right. So like switch
the sound, drop down to
a laughter and they hit.
Okay. All right. So sounds
speech. None or laughter. Yeah.
Okay. I'm clicking. Okay. All
right. And, and, and turn
on your brain, like a
child at this point. Okay.
Wow. Love it. That's you
know, it reminds me of
a program that I wrote
called bubbles, especially when move
the mouse around and you
make the trail of bubbles.
Yeah. That's exactly what I
did on a shape. Click
on a shape or use
the mouse, the mouse wheel.
Yeah. Get some nice music.
Sweet. So is this a
silver light WPF? What is
this? Yeah, so this is
a WPF dotnet three-five WPF.
And I think the point
that you just made that
you, you wrote one called
bubbles, every, every developer who
becomes a dad eventually writes
this program, decided you have
to, I mean, we're, we're
too weak to go out
and, and, you know, kill
an antelope. Yeah. So we
do, we only thing that
we know how to do.
Right. Right. If we were
handy, I suppose we'd make
them a chest of drawers
or something of our bed,
But you know what I
did once and I hate
to hijack this again. But
for Christmas, once I made
a crazy eights program for
my daughter, my first daughter,
she was about eight or
nine years old, maybe seven
or eight. I can't remember.
But anyway, she, I, I
basically wrote the logic to
a card game for crazy
eights and cause we like
to play. And then I
took videos of my self,
a headshot sort of reacting
to every different kind of
card and every different kind
of play. And then just
a bunch of random things,
you know, about, you know,
practicing or piano, clean up
a room, that kind of
stuff. And just, I don't
know, maybe 45, 50 different
little video clips. And then
I just spliced them in
at different times in the,
in the game so that
she could actually interact me.
And I know it's a
terrible babysitter, but you know,
that's not the way I
used it. I just wanted
to make a nice game.
She could play. Sure. And
what's cool about that is
I also made it so
that you could swap out
the, the, the videos with
other videos. So I had
my brother come in and
do a bunch of videos
of him took the same
game, just replaced the video
files and he gave it
to his son for Christmas
too. Very cool. Yeah. It
was fun. Yeah. That's the
kind of stuff that I
want to do with this.
I want to make it
so people can have a,
what we're calling smashed packs
animals, you know, rather than
just shapes and letters, animals,
vehicles, musical instruments, the solar
system, whatever. Awesome. I want
to, I want to put
in direct support for recording
videos from your webcam. Yeah.
So you could have, and
we're all doing this in
WPF, right? So you could
theoretically have, you know, several
dozen floating, transparent movies running
in the loop, floating around
the screen and mommy and
daddy talking to you with
these, these videos. I like
how, when you press the
keys, Scott, that, ah, the
keys come up and, and,
and sort of rotate and
move around and then they
sorta just fade gradually. It's
Cool. This started out really
small. So the, the story
is basically that a couple
of weeks ago I made
him come maybe a month
or two. Now I wrote
this WPF app like in
four hours and did it
in WPF. And I don't
know squat about WPF. So
I wrote it as a
WinForms application. And when I
say wind forms, I mean,
I wrote it in WPF
yup. With the knowledge that
I am a WinForms developer.
So I was, you know,
I had a code behind
and I was creating user
controls and adding them to
the tree, you know, and
doing all the kind of
stuff that you would write
it, you know, they say
that you can write Fortran
in any language. You know,
you can write a C
sharp and make it look
like assembler. If you feel
like it, I wrote a
WPF the wrong way. Now
I understand that WPF has
a very interesting high learning
curve. So I wrote it
wrong. And then I said,
well, I'm going to call
all of my people. I
know in my, on the
community and my readers and
people who are nice and
say, Hey, let's learn about
how to write this the
right way. So we'll start
with the nasty before code
and we'll end up with
a pretty after code, right?
So I've got this baby
smash a category on my
blog and I've done, I
think, six or seven refactorings
with WPF people. And I'm
going to meet, I'm actually
meeting Chris cells tomorrow for
lunch, who wrote WTF book?
I talked to Carl Shifflett,
it's up on code Plex
at covid.com/baby smash, where people
can, can give me a
lot of patches and stuff.
Jason camp gave me patches,
so it's slowly sucking less.
And then I, I met
with these guys at contango
and contango. They do WPF
and Silverlight work. And they're
out in there in, in
England. And I met Richard Griffin
and Felix cork. Felix is
a developer. You remember that
Felix and Richard, we had
on Hanselman, it's a couple
of shows ago. Yeah. To
talk about the relationship between
the developer and the designer
and the fact that baby
Spanish looks pretty at all
right now is entirely due
to Felix. Being able to,
you know, whip out a
pretty cool gradient and draw
a mouse cursor in like
two minutes. So he's been
doing the work in XAML
and then he ships that
over to me. So then
I went over to a
website called free CSS templates.org.
And if you take a
look@babysmash.com, which is where you
downloaded this from, it's actually
not a bad looking site.
Yeah. It's pretty good. Yeah.
I'm realizing that this is
the kind of stuff that
like, you know, the, the
Leon band bricks and the
different micro ISV types are
living. Yeah. We know I
did a micro ISP in
like 1998 when I did
gluco pilot, gluco pilot was
a blood sugar monitor for
the Palm pilot. Right. And
I had, I had three
pages and it looked very
nice and Netscape three, and
I, you know, let people
download my little Palm pilot
application. This was before PayPal.
So they used a shareware
tool called kg, a S
K AGI to pay me.
So it was all very
cheesy, but, and it took
me like weeks to get
all this set up, you
know, but with baby smash,
the website took maybe an
hour, two hours. The initial
application took, You just did
a basic ASP net site
with no with no look
and feel to it. And
then applied CSS. That seems,
What I actually did is
I went to free CSS
templates.org, and it's just one
of many, many free web
2.0 templates, websites found one
that looked kind of the
way I wanted downloaded it.
And then put it up
as just straight HTML as
is modified the content looked
at the way the CSS
did the tabs along the
top, change the tabs to
my own kind of tabs
added out of the stuff
that remembering that Leon Bambrick
did a really nice 25.
I think we had them
on. And we had one
in the show about this.
He said, 25 tips for
starting your own micro ISV.
Right? One of them was,
have a screenshot button on
the first page and have
a download button on the
first page. Yep. So I
set that stuff up and
then I've added a section
now called videos. Cause people
have been sending me their
YouTube and flicker videos of
their kids playing baby smash.
So if you go home,
maybe spanish.com click on videos,
you can see babies playing
babysit, mash, put all this
stuff up. Very, very minimal
minimal effort went to, I
stock photo.com, got the stock
photography paid for the stock
photography of the, the two
people on the front page
there. Right. And like on
a weekend. And, and I'm
realizing that I'm learning about
what it's like to be
a little microwave. Vino, of
course it's free, but it's
just really bringing back memories
of when I did this
10 years ago, but it's
so much easier as well.
And it looks like a
real legitimate company. I mean,
there's nothing about baby smash.com
that maybe gives away other,
you know, there's nothing that
gives away that it's not
a  It looks great.
I'm a WPF question for
you if you don't mind.
Of course. So when you
click on like the function
keys, you get shapes with
faces on them. And I
say, faces, they're like smiley
faces. They're they're crude, crude,
animation, cartoon. Yeah. They do
animate. And every once in
a while the eyes blink
and stuff like that, my
brain thinks, ah, set up
a timer or something like
that. But that could get
really crazy with a whole
bunch of different shapes. How
do you do that? So
the thing that is really
crazy, amazing about this application,
you know, other, other than
the fact that you slap
the buttons and shapes appear
is that do this for
me, hit, hit the space
bar a whole bunch of
times, watch them all and
just go slept in. And
they're all flying in now
while they're flying in, run
around and click on a
bunch of them while simultaneously
scrolling your mouse wheel. Okay.
I don't have a wheel
cause I don't Have a
mouse connected, but can I
use what? But if you
did it, If you scroll
your mouse wheel, they zoom
in and out. So we've
got, you know, 20 or
30 shapes on the screen.
I got a bunch of
shapes now. Yep. Animating in
blinking, spinning, fading away and
talking all at the same
time. Right. And there, there
is not a single line
of threading code in this
entire application. So is that
an attribute that, that you
put in the XAML somewhere
to tell it to, to
animate that? Yeah. Well, all
of the, all of the
animations are declarative. You simply
say that you want it
to do this and they're,
timeline-based rather than in the
way traditionally what you do,
you know, frames, frame based
animation or key frames, their
timeline based. So you, so
with the blinking, you just
say, I want you to
keep your eye open for
two seconds and then close
it for a half a
second and then open it
for three and then repeat
that forever. Okay. And that's
it. And you just say
that, and it just happens.
Now the spinning in and
out is doing a thing
called tweening where you're doing
in-betweens right. There's, there's some
equations and you say, well,
I want this shape to
start out 180 degrees flipped
over and then I want
it to end at zero.
And I don't just want
it to rotate in. Cause
you can do that with
like one line of XAML
we've added a library that
Richard Griffin found on the web
for tweening that creates in
between frames and adds an
equation to those frames to
make them not just come
in in a linear fashion,
but you know, come in,
stop for a second, accelerate
a bit. And then, and
then kind of continue on
its way. Yeah. It's a,
it's a, it's a much
more visually friendly and attractive
kind of, of animation. It's
very cool. The tweening the
declarative tweening is happening kind
of automatically. We saw that@afirstfloorsoftware.com.
I have never, so confidently
stroked my fingers across all
the keys on my laptop
before this is just really
ridiculous. Isn't it It's liberating.
Isn't it. To be able
to slap the keys and
you're that stuff pretty, apparently
someone said that their, their
baby hit the laptop so
much that they happen to
hit the part on the
front of the laptop where
the hard drive is. Oh,
and so baby smash is
not recommended for really vigorous
babies with hammers or, you
know, with computers you care
about probably, But you had
to use a, an external
keyboard. Right. Very, you know,
that's a really good idea.
That's a very good take
a cheap old keyboard and
then move that. Yeah. I
tell you, it's been very,
very difficult to catch every
key. The biggest complaint is
that I can't catch things
like window L and like
the lock and I can't,
I can't catch the calculator
button on, on, on your
fancy Microsoft keyboard because it's
not really a key. It
just took me awhile to
figure out it's actually a
custom message to a, to
a keyboard drive. Okay. So
What I've been doing instead
is I do have one
timer in the application where
every second I bring the
screen to the forefront. So
even though if you hit
the calculator button on your
machine, the calculator is still
coming up because I can't
stop it. At least I
can avoid you seeing it.
And even though I've marked
the window as being top,
most interestingly Vista tries really,
really hard to keep you
from doing everything that baby
smash does. It tries to
prevent you from taking over
from grabbing focus. The other
thing that I've gotten in
trouble with is that you
can shut your computer down
if you have a sleep
button and there's no way
that I can really do
that. And if I, unless
I get that, that not
responding thing. And then Vista
is just going to say,
baby smash is trying to
prevent you from shutting your
computer down. So it's been
really difficult to really get
the machine to chill While
you're talking. I went and
shrunk the bubbles program that
I had written years ago,
and it was years ago,
it was.net one, one, I
think, or at least it's
in.net shrinks.com/ten E V. Nice.
that'll take you to
the, the old.net code and
utilities page at Franklin's net
and there you'll see bubbles,
bubbles.zip. Very cool. Yeah. And
did it, did it go
full screen also? Yeah. Awesome.
And I was using GDI
plus stuff. And did you
end up having to do
threads and stuff now? Not
at all. I didn't do
any animation. I just, I
played a note and through
the middy, a library that
I wrote played a note
on a harp instrument, you
know, that just goes boom.
And the higher the mouse
goes, the higher the note
goes, and then it just
picks a random color and
draws the three-dimensional spheres bubble
on a blank. One of
the bits of feedback that
I've got do this for
me go to the baby
smash website. Okay. And on
the right hand side, there's
a tab feedback. It's feedback,
click on that tab for
me. Neat. Wow. So a
dialog box pops up and
it's as leave a comment
and it did a nice
little pop up. That's pretty
cool. So I'll leave you
a comment, frankly, Take a
look on the ideas on
the left side there. One
of them, I think you
can help me with Add
an MMO component to allow
babies to smash together is
that a, Someone suggested multi
massively multiplayer baby smash. So
they would like world of
Warcraft or world of baby
match. But look at the
fourth one there on the
bottom Connect mouse position to
MITIE. Yeah. They wanted me
to play some notes and
stuff. So you can go
to . That's exactly what
bubbles does. And there's the
code in there. So too,
so feel free. Cool. I'd
like to see that I
need some, some code. I
don't understand how to talk,
how to make middies sound
nice on a Vista system.
So do this for me.
Scroll down a little, go
ahead and click away from
there. And then where it
says welcome to baby smash.
Yeah. See the word Appearing
in the parent and the
paragraph there. Go ahead and
click on feedback. Okay. So
what URL are you at?
Hanselman.com, baby smash index HTM.
And it's still okay. Now
it goes to feedback.baby smash.com.
This is a really cool
thing that I stumbled upon
from a company called user
voice. And it basically promises
to give your users a
voice and notice that the
URL appears to be baby
Smash. So I've seen The
name alias, and I think
C name alias is one
of the most powerful things
that a lot of small
businesses are not aware of.
I agree that feedback, maybe
spanish.com simply resolves to baby
smash dot user voice.com. So
I've basically outsourced my feedback
forum to user voice.com, but
it still looks professional because
I've used the same colors
and the same logo. And
it appears under my domain.
And this is why things
like, remember the show we
did on live domains and
Google, Google, and windows live
domains, right? This is a
way to make your domain
appear with another application. I
am convinced that for the
micro YSV being able to
use these small companies, outsourced
functionality can let you get
up and going. And no
time, it literally took 15
minutes for me to get
this forum going. And that
includes the DNS propagation because
orcs web the company that
does my ISP has an
online tool for DNS and
they instantly updated. So I
didn't have to wait for
any propagation of my sub
domain DNS. Very cool. Yeah.
So take a look. People
are putting in like we
have 12 votes right now
for connect mouse position for
Mitty. Yeah. So I've got
to figure out what's going
on with that. So people
are putting in their votes
about different features that they
want and babies. Gosh, the,
the mini library that's in
bubbles is an older version.
And if, if you want
a newer version for the
latest code, you can go
to shrink stir.com/ten E w.
And that's a DNR TV
show that I did on
my mini router and mini
player. So that is that
there's a link there to
the latest source code for
the mini tools. Well, that's
pretty awesome. WPF man, WPF
click once application. Yeah, It's
pretty interesting. There's a lot
of interesting stuff coming out
with WPF really soon. Now,
WPF is going to have
better click one support, click
one support for Firefox and
the dotnet three, five service
pack one. So right now
people have to have a
Firefox extension to get this
application running under Firefox, but
I'm gonna update it to
done it. Three, five service
pack one as soon as
that's out. And then that
will put a Firefox extension
on their system automatically and
let them automatically get this.
Let me see if I
can say automatically about six
more times, let them do
click once on their Firefox.
So that'll be cool. One
of the interesting things is
that a number of parts
of WPF are going to
be taken from software rendering
to hardware rendering. So I'll
be able to do things
like glows, you know, glow
and different, different shader effects
that'll be done using the
hardware, the kind of direct
decks hardware. Yeah. The effects
library. Very cool. Yeah. So
things are going to get
a little bit more powerful
and a lot faster. And
I'm also looking at things
like letting users record their
own audio sounds a record
themselves and their kids. And
then, you know, let kids
do little videos of themselves.
So I mean, the possibilities
are pretty much endless, but
I definitely need more people
to help me out. I've
had a number of patches
put up, but code plex.com/baby
smash, Great idea to incorporate
content from the user's machine
without reprogramming anything, you know,
just put whole bunch of
videos and images and stuff
right. In a directory somewhere
and just pull those up
and splatter those across the
screen. Yeah. There's a, there's
a lot of stuff that
can potentially be done interestingly
though, because the code was
slapped together. Every time I
sit down and it, it
is a refactoring, you know,
I'm introducing things I just
couldn't have thought of because
I didn't, I didn't give
any thought to the, that
particular feature. You know, that's
one of the things that's
fun about it is that
it's so freeform. Yeah. Like
when I, like, when Felix
sent me the, the new
XAML with the pictures of
the little shapes, he's the
guy who put faces on
them. Yeah. But then someone
said, well, I want the
option to have no faces.
Yeah. So then I've got
to go and make the,
you, I has face interface
and, and you know, if
I has face right. And
all that stuff is being
done completely on the fly.
And one of the things
that I have done very
poorly and I'd really appreciate
some help from somebody who
knows what they're doing is
I've done really no test
driven development. I don't understand
how someone would test an
application like this. That is,
you know, not only UI
intensive, but, but random, you
know, how do you make
sure that this something works?
That's a great question. Really?
The way that I test
it as if it doesn't
crash, then I figured it's
doing all right. But I'm
sure there are a huge,
huge number of bugs. So
yeah. I'm hoping more people
get involved. I've had a
couple of interesting responses on
Facebook where I had one
particular guy who was a
voiceover actor in a, in
LA who had done some
commercial work and some standup
comedy offered to do a
male voices for it to
say things like red square.
Wow. And yeah. So, I
mean, there's all sorts of,
of interesting stuff going on
and no one's asking for,
for any money and I'm
certainly not offering any money.
Although I did get $24
in donations on PayPal. Hey.
All right, man. So that's
something that's been a lot
of fun. Yeah. I think
it's cool. A two bedroom
or your kids are too
old though. You can't help
me pretty much. Yeah. Sorry
about that. Well, I'll take
a look at bubbles. I'd
love to add the middy
library to this and see
how far our babies match.
Maybe Spanish goes. I'm just
really happy that it's required
really minimal effort to do
some pretty pout polished stuff.
I think there's probably 600
lines of code in the
whole thing. And I'm looking
forward to talking to some
real XAML experts and that
they're talking about moving more
and more of my programmatic
chunks of code into XAML
making it more declarative places
where I've done animations in
10 lines of C sharp
code will turn into a
couple of lines of SAML.
And that also will allow
the designer to come up
with the animations as opposed
to me doing them on
the backend. Very cool. Yeah.
Scott, it's been fun. Thanks
a lot for coming to
hang out again. Thanks for
inviting me. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.